# saravanan-portfolio
Public Portfolio for Telling Stories with Data at Carnegie Mellon University

# About Me
Hello! My name is Sharnikha Saravanan (she/her). I am a first-year Master of Science in Health Care Policy and Management at Carnegie Mellon University. As a recent graduate of University of Miami with Bachelor of Science in Neuroscience and Health Science (2020), I have been passionate about providing equitable healthcare and enacting change within the U.S. healthcare system. Initially, I wanted to be a clinical physician but after taking a class on health policy and based on my own interaction with the system, I decided to pursue further education on health policy and then continue onto medical school. 

Specifically, I want to work towards changing healthcare access for low-income communities and minority groups. With the increasing diversity in the United States, the healthcare system should have adjusted to the variations in presentations of illness, multiple languages, and cultural backgrounds that are present in the population. However, minority groups continue to be ignored by the system leading to worse outcomes and growing distance between the providers and the patients. Low-income communities have also been disregarded as seen with fewer preventive care available and increased emergency department visits with worse and more expensive outcomes. I want to improve healthcare access for these populations by implementing standards of care and increasing preventive care, as well as reducing disparities through improving patient health literacy and provider's cultural and racial knowledge. Health care is a human right, and the U.S. healthcare system should actively aim to provide equitable and high-quality care for every individual.

# What I Hope to Learn
In this class, I hope to learn how to represent data effectively with various types of visualizations that can help the audience understand the main idea and take away a key piece of information from the graphic. I hope to understand what steps to take in order to create a clear visualization that is aesthetic but also, informative to any reader. Within the healthcare system, data visualizations play a critical role in patient care, scientific evidence, and statistics about management and medical errors. I want to use information from this class to create visualizations that can be publicly available to bring attention to a key problem in the healthcare system or build trust in a community on medical advances with scientific evidence. I also want to use visualizations for policy memos and briefs to persuade leaders to enact change. 

# Portfolio 
This is the list of my current data visualizations. 
